RO4 Commissioning
==================

Connect to the Wifi network with SSID PWCL_Rig2.  Connect to the PLC
at 192.168.1.91.

Using the Texmate Development System, compile RO4.bas and open the
port to the PLC.


To confirm communication:
-------------------------
 - add User/UserVariables/TT01 to the watch window
 - turn the watch on
 - check that the value for TT01 from the PLC matches the value on the
   LED screen.


To modify the state of a valve:
-------------------------------
 - ensure that the plant is in the stopped state (fd100StepNumber == 0)
   or in the "Manual Test Mode" state (set fd100StepNumber to 50)
 - the cmd variable (for example, V01cmd) sets the valve to one of three
   states:
     0 -> None (This causes no change in state.)
     1 -> Auto
     2 -> Manual Off
     3 -> Manual On
 - add the cmd variable to the watch window (find the variable under
   User/UserVariables)
 - turn the watch on
 - double click on the variable in the watch window
 - type the new value and press enter
 
Note that the valves require air pressure to function, and the system
NO LONGER checks that there is sufficient, or even any, air pressure.
Further, note that the valve may already be in the desired state.  To
check that it is working change the state from off to on and then to
auto.  If everything is working correctly, this should change the
valve position and then return it back again to its original position.


Check list of valves:
---------------------

Confirmation that a valve is working can be obtained by changing its
cmd variable to 3, then to 2, then to 1.  If the valve is working, it
will change state either two or three times, depending on its default
state.

The following valves exist, and should be confirmed as working for
commissioning:

V01 - Water isolation valve to feed tank
V02 - Bypass redirection valve (to drain or to feedtank)
V03 - Permeate drain isolation valve
V04 - Isolation valve to allow air out the top of the pipework when filling
V05 - Retentate drain isolation valve
V06 - Retentate drain isolation valve
V07 - Retentate drain isolation valve
V10 - Seal water isolation valve
V11 - Cooling water isolation valve



Buttons and  Lights:
--------------------

There are four push buttons with internal lights and an emergency stop
button.  The buttons are bits |PB01_I to |PB04_I and |ES01_I.  The
lights are |PB01_O to |PB04_O.






Level Transmitters:
-------------------

There is one tank on RO4, the feedtank.  The tank has a level
transmitter, LT01.

There is another possibility for an off-rig feedtank.  This would have
another transmitter, LT02, which would need to be plugged into a
socket underneath the control cabinet.





Pumps:
------

Pump 1 (PP01) takes product from the feed tank and "stuffs" it into the
retentate line.

Pump 2 (PP02) pumps the retentate through the membranes.

To run a pump, there is both a run signal and a run speed.  The signal
variable ends in 'cmd' (for example, 'PP01cmd') and the speed variable
ends with an '_SPD' (for example, 'PP01_SPD').

The speed variable is a percentage multiplied by 100.  So to set the
speed to 50%, set the variable to 50x100 = 5000.

The pump speed for PP01 (PP01_SPD) is set by a PID controller.  If
controlAlogithm is set to 0, then RC13cv controls the pump speed.  If
controlAlgorithm is set to 1, then PC01cv controls the pump speed.

To change the pump speed, set the appropriate PID controller to "set
output" mode.  To do that set the PIC controller's command (RC13cmd or
PC01cmd) to the value 2.  From there, you can manually modify the PID
controller's cv (RC13cv or PC01cv); this then modified the pump speed.
Remember to return the PID controller to its auto state (by setting
the command value to 1).

The VSDs do not appear to ramp the pump speed slowly to ensure that
the pumps are not shoked by a request.  Thus, they hit their speed
point very quickly and should not be asked to go from say 0% to 100%,
or visa versa.

For both pumps, the VSD ensures a safe minimum run speed for the pump,
thus setting the speed to 0% does not stop the pump, but rather runs
it as slowly as possible in a manner that can be maintained without
over heating the pumps.

Not that running pump 1 (PP01) could easily overpressure the membranes
within a second of operation.  Be careful to open the bypass line
(CV01) and monitor the pressure (PT01).

PP02's speed (PP02_SPD) is controlled by the PID controller DPC12.

To change the pump speed for PP02, set the PID controller to "set
output" mode.  To do that set the DPC12cmd to the value 2.  From
there, you can manually modify DPC12cv; this then modifies the pump
speed.  Remember to return the PID controller to its auto state (by
setting the command value to 1).




To run and to stop the pump, use the command variable.  Set the
command variable to one of three states:
     0 -> None (This causes no change in state.)
     1 -> Auto
     2 -> Manual Off
     3 -> Manual On

Make sure there is liquid in the feed tank or in the retentate line
before starting a pump as the pumps do not appreciate being run dry.





Flow meters:
------------

There are three flow meters, FT01, FT02, and FT03.  Their values can be
displayed on the LCD screen (press the down arrow until the appropriate
page is shown).

FT01 measures the permeate flow in L/h.  If the plant is configured
with just one membrane, it's possible that the permeate flow is so low
that this flow meter is unreliable.

FT02 measures the flow in the bypass line in L/h.

FT03 measures the retentate flow rate in L/h.




Pressure transmitters and switches:
-----------------------------------

There are three pressure transmitters, PT01, PT02, and PT05.  PT01 and
PT02 are displayed on the LCD screen.  PS04 is a pressure switch.

PT01 measures the pressure in the retentate circulation flow after the pump PP01.

PT02 measures the pressure downstream of the membranes.

PS04 is a pressure switch for the seal water on pump PP02.

PT05 measures the permeate pressure.




Temperature transmitter:
------------------------

There is one temperature transmitter, TT01.  It measures the
temperature of the retentate line (just after the pressure pump PP02).

{ CHECK ME:
When not stopped, there is a constant check on the temperature to
ensure the safety of the membrane.
}



PID control:
------------

There are a number of PID controllers.  They have an interface similar
to valves and pumps.

To change the state of the controller, use the command variable (cmd).  Set the
command variable to one of three states:
     0 -> None (This causes no change in state.)
     1 -> Auto
     2 -> Manual setpoint
     3 -> Manual PID

Manual setpoint allows you to write to the cv variable (e.g. PC01cv),
which is always copied to the control variable (PP01_SPD).  So, to
manually set the value of PP01_SPD to 30%, set the PID controller cmd
variable to 2, and change PC01cv to 3000.




Commissioning notes:
--------------------

2018-04-19:

Issues with:
 - plant stopping too early because it thinks it has acheived
concentration.
 - plant faulted beacuse of insufficient flow through bypass line
 - pump making clunking noise.
 - membrane possibly leaking
 - air continually appearing in the permeate line 

The issue with the air appearing in the permeate line appears to have
been caused by the stuffing pump pulling air in through a seal.  We
replaced the seals and tightened the fittings near the possible
sources of air leaks.  This appears to have fixed the air leak.

We pulled out the membrane only to discover that the product we had
used was not filtered.  Sizeable lumps of fruit pulp were found
against the membrane housing.  The product was removed and filtered.

We documented the operation of the plant and went through it with Mike.

The plant is no longer making the clunking noises.  This may have been
caused by either the intake of air or the fruit pulp issue.

We tested the operation of PP01, PP02 and CV01.  They all functioned
correctly under testing.

We ran the plant up to 17 bar and produced acceptable permeate on a
blackcurrent product.  Neither of the two faults were observed.
Perhaps the fault with the insufficient flow through the bypass line
was caused by issues with the flow meter when air was present.

2017-10-17:

Pumps were running at 0% during CIP.  In the changes of adding the
control algorithm options, testing of the flush and CIP functions had
been forgotten.  For exach state involved in flushing and CIPing,
parameter values for PC01 and RC23 were specified.  The flush function
now performs as expected.


2017-08-11:

Reimplemented control algorithm #1.  PP01_SPD is now controlled by
PC01 and CV01 is not controlled by RC23.


2017-08-10:

Started testing of control algorithm #1.

Took the commissioning notes from HOF5 as a basis for these notes.
